README.md, before:

# Akka Streams / Alpakka Azure Event Hubs - Java Samples

This repository provides Java based Akka Streams examples of using the Alpakka Azure Event Hubs connector.

> Note: The Alpakka Azure Event Hubs connector is only available to specific licensed Lightbend customers.

## Overview

The Akka Stream samples contained in this repository are based upon the Protobuf based events called UserPurchaseProto. Java classes are automatically generated by the Akka gRPC plugin described [here](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/current/).

Samples Sources, Flows, and Sinks are provided in two classes:  

1. [EventHubProducerFlows](./src/main/java/com/lightbend/streams/EventHubsProducerFlows.java)
2. [EventHubConsumerFlows](./src/main/java/com/lightbend/streams/EventHubsConsumerFlows.java)

Simple sample applications have been provided in the app package which ultimately leverage each of the sample Akka Streams.  

## Set up / Configuration

Before running any of the sample applications you'll need to provide environment variables to enable proper connectivity to Azure Event Hubs. All environment variables are picked up through the `application.conf` file and must be set prior to running any of the sample application.

> **Note**: I've only been able to test the applications and associated stream sources, flows, and sinks using SAS connection strings.

>**Note**: these application samples are producing to, and consuming from the same Event Hub (topic). In the event that your use case requires an application to consume from one Event Hub and produce to another then you'll need to take care to create separate versions of the `alpakka.azure.eventhubs` configuration for producers and consumers and load appropriately.

### Event Hubs Connectivity

Following is a list of environment variables currently available in `application.conf`:

EVENT_HUBS_CONNECTION_STRING (Optional) - The connection string for the Event Hub.
For more information on creating connection strings please [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-java-get-started-send?tabs=connection-string%2Croles-azure-portal#get-the-connection-string). If this is left blank, then the code defaults to the SERVICE_PRINCIPAL-n settings.

EVENT_HUBS_HUB_NAME - This is synonymous with a Kafka topic name.

### Producer Settings

EVENT_HUBS_NAMESPACE (Optional) - normally in the format of `<eventhubs-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net`. This setting wasn't successfully tested where it might be used with service principals for Azure connectivity.

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_TENANT_ID (Optional)

### Consumer Settings

EVENT_HUBS_CONSUMER_GROUP - This setting allows one or more applications to consume elements of a stream at their own rate. For more information, please see [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-features#consumer-groups).

The following settings are only used if no connection string is provided for the EVENT_HUBS_CONNECTION_STRING environment variable above.

EVENT_HUBS_NAMESPACE (Optional) - normally in the format of `<eventhubs-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net`. This setting wasn't successfully tested where it might be used to create credentials for Azure connectivity.

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_TENANT_ID (Optional)

### Consumer Checkpoint Store (Blob Storage) Settings

The checkpoint store is used to save position of the last element read. This is important when restarting a consumer so that the application can pick up where it left off.

CHECKPOINT_STORE_CONNECTION_STRING - 

CHECKPOINT_STORE_CONTAINER_NAME - container name used for the unique checkpoint store.

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_TENANT_ID (Optional)

Commit message:

description for checkpoint connection string

README.md, after:

# Akka Streams / Alpakka Azure Event Hubs - Java Samples

This repository provides Java based Akka Streams examples of using the Alpakka Azure Event Hubs connector.

> Note: The Alpakka Azure Event Hubs connector is only available to specific licensed Lightbend customers.

## Overview

The Akka Stream samples contained in this repository are based upon the Protobuf based events called UserPurchaseProto. Java classes are automatically generated by the Akka gRPC plugin described [here](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/current/).

Samples Sources, Flows, and Sinks are provided in two classes:  

1. [EventHubProducerFlows](./src/main/java/com/lightbend/streams/EventHubsProducerFlows.java)
2. [EventHubConsumerFlows](./src/main/java/com/lightbend/streams/EventHubsConsumerFlows.java)

Simple sample applications have been provided in the app package which ultimately leverage each of the sample Akka Streams.  

## Set up / Configuration

Before running any of the sample applications you'll need to provide environment variables to enable proper connectivity to Azure Event Hubs. All environment variables are picked up through the `application.conf` file and must be set prior to running any of the sample application.

> **Note**: I've only been able to test the applications and associated stream sources, flows, and sinks using SAS connection strings.

>**Note**: these application samples are producing to, and consuming from the same Event Hub (topic). In the event that your use case requires an application to consume from one Event Hub and produce to another then you'll need to take care to create separate versions of the `alpakka.azure.eventhubs` configuration for producers and consumers and load appropriately.

### Event Hubs Connectivity

Following is a list of environment variables currently available in `application.conf`:

EVENT_HUBS_CONNECTION_STRING (Optional) - The connection string for the Event Hub.
For more information on creating connection strings please [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-java-get-started-send?tabs=connection-string%2Croles-azure-portal#get-the-connection-string). If this is left blank, then the code defaults to the SERVICE_PRINCIPAL-n settings.

EVENT_HUBS_HUB_NAME - This is synonymous with a Kafka topic name.

### Producer Settings

EVENT_HUBS_NAMESPACE (Optional) - normally in the format of `<eventhubs-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net`. This setting wasn't successfully tested where it might be used with service principals for Azure connectivity.

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_TENANT_ID (Optional)

### Consumer Settings

EVENT_HUBS_CONSUMER_GROUP - This setting allows one or more applications to consume elements of a stream at their own rate. For more information, please see [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-features#consumer-groups).

The following settings are only used if no connection string is provided for the EVENT_HUBS_CONNECTION_STRING environment variable above.

EVENT_HUBS_NAMESPACE (Optional) - normally in the format of `<eventhubs-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net`. This setting wasn't successfully tested where it might be used to create credentials for Azure connectivity.

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_TENANT_ID (Optional)

### Consumer Checkpoint Store (Blob Storage) Settings

The checkpoint store is used to save position of the last element read. This is important when restarting a consumer so that the application can pick up where it left off.

CHECKPOINT_STORE_CONNECTION_STRING - the access key for the given storage account hosting the containers hosting the checkpoint blob store.

CHECKPOINT_STORE_CONTAINER_NAME - container name used for the unique checkpoint store.

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET (Optional)

SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_TENANT_ID (Optional)
